Bring over the NSFW policy draft (#85)
QuiltMC/quiltmc.org: src/pages/en/community/nsfw-policy.mdx

---
title: NSFW Policy
description: Quilt's NSFW and Sexual Content policy - clarifying what subjects, media and content we do and don't allow.
layout: /src/layouts/Page.astro
---

import Foldable from "@atoms/Foldable.astro";

While it's true that Discord (and most other social media platforms) require their users to be at least 13 years of age, it's become clear that using common age-specific ratings for media (for example, PG-13) is not sufficient for our community. As the way people define NSFW content varies wildly depending on the individual and context, this document seeks to define what that term means for our community, and thus what content is unacceptable in our spaces.

## Terminology

We use the following terminology in the below document, which we've decided to explain here -- just in case you're not entirely familiar with them.

### Body Horror

"Body horror" can refer to one of a number of concepts:

> - AI-generated imagery that depicts people or animals with disfigured bodies and limbs, extra body parts, missing body parts, etc

Reviewer: etc should have a period at the end
```suggestion
- AI-generated imagery that depicts people or animals with disfigured bodies and limbs, extra body parts, missing body parts, etc.
```

"Gender-affirming surgery" refers to surgeries that may be undertaken by trans people in order to physically affirm their gender (and expression thereof), if they wish. This includes things like sexual reassignment surgery (SRS), facial feminization surgery (FFS), facial masculinization surgery (FMS), and so on.

While it's true that cis people also occasionally undertake gender-affirming surgeries, this is considerably easier to for them to obtain when compared to trans people. If you're cis and are undertaking (or have undertaken) surgeries like this then your related discussions still come under this definition, but our policies largely focus on trans people, as they suffer from far more related discrimination -- medical, political, and otherwise.

## NSFW? What's That?

NSFW is short for "Not Safe For Work". This term, along with NSFL ("Not Safe For Life"), are often used online to denote content that you either wouldn't show to your boss, or wouldn't show to anyone -- acting as loose definitions for content that either belongs in specific spaces, or doesn't belong anywhere.

Generally speaking:

- **`NSFW` includes:** Suggestive content, porn, etc

> - **`NSFL` includes:** Animal abuse, gore, vore, suicide, serious injuries, body horror, etc

Reviewer: etc should have a period at the end (x2)
```suggestion
- **`NSFW` includes:** Suggestive content, porn, etc.
- **`NSFL` includes:** Animal abuse, gore, vore, suicide, serious injuries, body horror, etc.
```

> - **`NSFL` includes:** Animal abuse, gore, vore, suicide, serious injuries, body horror, etc

Author: My grammar checker disagrees with you there

> - **`NSFL` includes:** Animal abuse, gore, vore, suicide, serious injuries, body horror, etc

Author: Yeah, even with picky mode enabled, it's totally fine without - I'm gonna leave it this way for the sake of consistency with the rest of the document

**Additionally:** We are not the ultimate arbiters of what should and should not be considered NSFW content on a global scale. Some types of content we've listed below are included because a user had questions about it, because we want to ensure people understand how posting specific content impacts their safety, or because we wanted to be clear and avoid confusing users -- not because we consider it problematic or we think other people shouldn't be allowed to peruse it, aside from a few specific examples in the banned category.

<Foldable id="space-specific rules">
<span slot="title">Space-Specific Rules</span>

The following rules apply to specific Quilt community spaces. If a space isn't listed here, you can assume that it follows the rest of this document. **Banned content remains banned regardless of space-specific rules.**

- **Forums:** Minimal contextual content outside designated spaces
- **GitHub:** No contextual or restricted content
- **Toolchain Discord:** No restricted content and minimal contextual content
</Foldable>

<Foldable id="explicitly-allowed-content">

> <span slot="title">Explicitly Allowed Content</span>

Reviewer: Well, I guess this issue might be exaggerated and the meaning is clear for people who continue reading or re-read sections, but my point still stands, it's always nice to make things as easy to understand as possible 😁

> <span slot="title">Explicitly Allowed Content</span>

Author: This was added to clarify that "Allowed Content" meant "we allow these things some people wouldn't" rather than "these are the only things we allow".

I don't think it's confusing to say "explicitly allowed content" here. This isn't "allowed explicit content". We can always clarify when people ask, b/c the uncharitable reading doesn't actually make sense in this context!

> <span slot="title">Explicitly Allowed Content</span>

Author: I've had a chat on the DMD and been advised on how to approach this, so I've updated the document accordingly.

> <span slot="title">Explicitly Allowed Content</span>

Author: As this is a minor wording issue, I think it's reasonable that we don't delay the new policy b/c of it - the wording can be updated at any point as needed

> <span slot="title">Explicitly Allowed Content</span>

Reviewer: > This isn't "allowed explicit content"

I've seen changes in meaning due to word order be confusing to one person before (I believe they were a russian native speaker)

> This was added to clarify that "Allowed Content" meant "we allow these things some people wouldn't" rather than "these are the only things we allow".

> We can always clarify when people ask, b/c the uncharitable reading doesn't actually make sense in this context!

Good point :+1:

The following content **is allowed** in our spaces.

### Anywhere

> - Hormone replacement therapy, related discussions, and information on how to obtain it (DIY or otherwise, regardless of local legal context)

Reviewer: > ...regardless of local legal context)

I'm sure this was discussed a lot internally ect., but I am obligated to formally object here. I understand morality != legality, and that the world may be unfair and full of injustices, however Quilt spaces can include some platforms that also prohibit encouraging illegal activity (namely Discord).

https://discord.com/guidelines
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68503800/200784202-492c4472-8050-412b-aee5-3ec1b3aa492f.png)
https://discord.com/terms#8
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68503800/200785273-52d4f7e1-0957-4654-be83-240f3d8f2601.png)

Such a policy encourages community members and Community Team members to risk getting their account suspended or terminated, along with potential legal issues in their respective country (messaging platforms can be used as evidence against someone).

Reviewer: I know it's tempting to just say "screw it, we'll just see if this causes any issues", but the potential consequences here are rather severe. Encouraging people to break local laws should not be taken lightly (especially if those people do not fully understand what those consequences may be, such as hefty fines they cannot afford)

Author: While I appreciate your concerns, I think they can largely be addressed by being responsible with the information we provide. There's no reason for anyone to be deliberately not told that testosterone is a controlled substance in some countries, and it's impossible to talk about DIY while excluding transmasc people -- and that's a good thing.

Quilt doesn't exist to avoid activism, it's one of the reasons we exist.

Author: I've had a chat on the DMD and been advised on how to approach this, so I've updated the document accordingly.

### In spaces designated for serious or sensitive topics
#### With a spoiler and content warning, and without imagery

- Discussions relating to sexual abuse (or other related trauma), from the perspective of activism, venting, discussing news, seeking support, and supporting survivors and the families of victims

While we aren't therapists (or trained in how to help with these situations), it's hard to overstate how helpful it can be to receive support from your peer group, or just to talk about your trauma. We feel it's important for us to provide spaces where this can happen -- but we'd like to remind you that therapy is helpful for many people going through all sorts of things, and you should still seek it out if you need it.

### In spaces designated for trans or LGBT+ people, or for serious or sensitive topics
#### Without intimate imagery, aside from medical diagrams with a spoiler and content warning

- Sexual health and body care

> - Explicit information about gender-affirming surgery and what happens during it

Author: The second one, though I can just use "detailed" here

> As a trans-positive space, it wouldn't make sense for us to disallow these discussions. It's still worth noting that even cis people may need to talk about sexual health and body care, though, so we don't limit this to trans-related discussions.

Author: That seems uncharitable to me, sexual health is a well-defined concept, with [comprehensive documentation provided by the World Health Organization](https://www.who.int/health-topics/sexual-health).

If someone attempts to make up some other definition, we can just moderate it.

> As a trans-positive space, it wouldn't make sense for us to disallow these discussions. It's still worth noting that even cis people may need to talk about sexual health and body care, though, so we don't limit this to trans-related discussions.

Author: I'll add that link to the document, but I don't think any wording changes are necessary

### Implied or explicit nudity

- Implied or explicit nudity involving drawn characters, real people or AI generated images, including photos depicting the results of gender-affirming surgery or imagery where someone appears to be nude -- even when their intimate body parts are not visible due to positioning or framing
- Implied or explicit nudity involving drawn characters, where the depiction is intended to be suggestive, sexual, shocking, or otherwise not incidental or intended for practice

### Suggestive or sexual attention

- Suggestive comments about (or reactions to) other users that haven't consented to it, especially if they've stated they're uncomfortable with it or aren't old enough -- regardless of how explicit the comments are
- Sexual comments about other users, regardless of context or whether they consent to it, including implications about other people or groups of people
- Any suggestive or intimate depictions involving people other than the poster, without their consent or knowledge -- including creep-shots or images reasonably assumed to be private, regardless of how well-known the person is

### Suggestive or sexual content

> - Imagery or other media (including audio) intended to be suggestive or arousing, or to seek a sexual response from another user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Text, images, GIFs, video, audio or other content intended to be suggestive or arousing, or to seek a sexual response from another user
```

> - Imagery or other media (including audio) intended to be suggestive or arousing, or to seek a sexual response from another user

Author: We define "content" way up at the top of the document, so I'll just switch to that

</Foldable>

## Moderation Policy

First and foremost, we'd like to point out that we're not trying to be the fun police. Our community is host to a diverse range of people with many backgrounds, and some of them may suffer from panic attacks or other strong reactions to NSFW content. We believe that these people have a place in our community, and we'd like to make it as welcoming for them as we can.

We're aware of the different levels of tolerance people have for drawn art versus photography and depictions of real people, and we understand the need to take content _and_ context into account when moderating this type of media. We'll do our best to avoid under-moderating while still allowing an acceptable degree of freedom.

Additionally, it's worth pointing out that NSFW content can present a safety issue when posted around minors. Our team is intimately familiar with the correlation between people posting NSFW content around minors and how those people can be a danger to those minors, and we will not tolerate any behaviour that impacts the safety of our users.

> While we moderate NSFW content on a case-by-case basis in accordance with our broader moderation policy, we'd like to point out that the Community Team may include minors and people that have strong reactions to NSFW content. For this reason, **we do not allow minors to handle NSFW content,** and Community Team members that do not wish to handle NSFW content **are welcome to avoid doing so**, or ask another staff member to handle it in their stead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we moderate NSFW content on a case-by-case basis in accordance with our broader moderation policy, we'd like to point out that the Community Team may include minors and people that have strong reactions to NSFW content. For this reason, **we do not allow minors to handle NSFW content,** and Community Team members that do not wish to handle NSFW content **are welcome to avoid doing so**, or ask another staff member to handle it instead.
```
